High in this video we're going to look at positional and keyword arguments for functions.
So the most common way of assigning arguments to parameters is via the order in which they are passed
in.
In other words they position just a quick example.
Suppose we define a function my func with two parameters A and B if we call my func using 10 come at
20 as the arguments while the first argument is 10.
So it will correspond to the first parameter.
The second argument 20 will be assigned to the second parameter b.
Now the words will end up with equal to 10 and be equal to 20.
On the other hand if we call my phunk 20 come at 10 the same thing happens except that in this case
the first argument is 20.
So it will get assigned to the first parameter and 10 will get assigned to the second parameter.
Since that's the second argument.
And so we end up with a will be equal to 20 and B will be equal to 10.
So that's just positional arguments and it just basically looks at the position of the argument and
assigns it to the corresponding parameter.
At the same position now we can define default values and if we specify a default value on a parameter
we are essentially creating an optional argument let's take a look at an example.
Let's say we define my func with a comma B.
But now we also write equal to 100.
This is how we specify a default value for a parameter.
So we're basically saying if the user doesn't specify B if the caller doesn't specify B then said be
equal to 100.
So how would we call this function.
Well we can certainly call it the usual way 10 camarade 20 and so 10 will go into a 20 we'll go into
B that works as well it's just positional arguments.
The difference now is that we don't actually have to specify the second parameter.
So we could write my phunk five.
Now when that happens Python starts again positionally.
OK first argument goes to the first parameter.
So a will be equal to 5 but there is no second argument.
So Python will look at the second parameter since it has a default value.
It will use it if it didn't have a default value.
This would of course fail.
You need to pass in as many arguments as you have.
The non-default parameters but in this case we'll end up with equal to 5 and be equal to the default
value of one hundred.
Now consider a case where we have three arguments and we want to make one of them optional.
So suppose we have this we have a B and C are the three parameters.
And we're going to specify a default value for B but we don't want one for C we just want to be.
So let's say we do that.
Then what happens when we call the function.
Would we call this function without specifying a value for the second parameter.
Maybe this my phunk five commet 25 Well you tell me how would you assign these parameters to this function
here.
Well it's pretty obvious five should go into a.
Ok that makes sense.
And 25 should go into or which one that I mean the 25 should be be what 25 should be c..
Well it doesn't make sense Python doesn't know either Python can tell which one you meant to put it
in.
So in fact this doesn't work at all.
It won't run right.
You'll get an exception.
And in fact you can't define a function this way either.
That will also result in an exception.
What you have to do.
The rule is that if a positional parameter is defined with a default value then every positional parameter
after it must also be given a default value.
In other words you cannot if you start putting a default value on B.
Then you also have to specify a default value for c.
Now you can make the default value equal to none.
That's what you want but you still have to specify
first take a look at this example now.
So my Phunk with a Beagle 2 5 and sequel to 10.
So this is now valid because we have a default value for B and we also have a default value for c which
is required.
So now we can call my function what will happen.
It's going to put one into a that's positional and then it will use the defaults for B and C.
Since we didn't define a second or third argument.
And so we'll end up of equals one equals 5 equals 10.
Also we can say my phunk one common to what will happen while I will put one into a two into B and then
C will be its default value.
So we have a with one B is two and C will be 10.
We can of course also specify all three values.
And in this case we'll get one two and three in a B and C respectively.
None of the defaults will be used since we specified three arguments and there were three parameters.
But here's the thing now.
What if you want to specify the first and the third arguments but omit the second argument.
So we want to call my func.
We want to specify a value for A.
We want to specify a value for c what we want to be we want B to take on its default value.
How might we do this.
How do we specify a and c but let B be the default.
Well obviously we cannot call it with just two peremptory arguments.
If we do that we're going to end up with one in a to b and then C will be the default.
That's not what we wanted.
Right.
We can just leave it blank or put you know just a comma in there that's going to be an exception that's
not a valid syntax.
So how do we go about doing this.
Well we have to use something called keyword arguments.
They're also called named arguments.
And basically it works this way.
We specify the name of the parameter when we specify the argument value.
So in other words we might call my phunk equals one sequel's to Python We'll look at this and say Ah
ok so you putting one into a.
And as the parameter it's the name of the parameter.
So these names here these are named arguments the names must correspond to the names of the parameters
in the function definition.
So I will take one put it into a.
It will take to put it into C and since B has a default and wasn't specified here it will just take
the default will be.
And so we'll end up with a call to one be equal to 5 the default and see equal to two.
So those are keyword arguments all named arguments.
We can also do it this way where we can mix things up a little bit.
We can put a positional argument and we can also put in a named argument.
So what happens here.
While one is going to go to a that's a positional argument b we're not specifying a value because we're
specifying sequel to Python looks at this and say OK you want to put two and two C and that's it.
So therefore it will again use the default for B which will be 5.
So we end up again with the same thing will be equal to one B will be 5 and C will be equal to 2.
So that works perfectly well.
So positional arguments can optionally be specified by using the parameter name.
That's what we just saw.
And whether or not the parameters have default values this doesn't work.
Only when parameters have default values.
Let's take a look at a quick example of that.
Let's say we have this function here with three parameters a b and c none of which have a default value.
That means that we will have to provide three arguments to this function.
None of the arguments will be optional since none of them have a default value.
So we can call the function we're using the normal positional arguments.
One comment to come in three and we'll get that a will be equal to one B will be equal to 2 and C will
be equal to 3.
Equivalently we could call it this way.
One comma to comment sequel's three.
Now that's kind of silly doing that since we've already specified one in two.
So C is the third argument positionally doesn't make sense to give it you know a named keyword argument.
But you can.
It works.
That's perfectly fine and sometimes you want to do that just for readability of your code but you might
want to specify that specifically so that the person reading the function call can tell.
OK that's what the third parameter is.
May just want to highlight that.
Now of course you can also call the function this way.
Equals one equals two Segal's three.
You can make all three named arguments or keyword arguments.
So at this point you may be asking yourself what's you know what's the point of doing that if you don't
have default values so you don't have optional arguments so why would you even want to use named arguments.
If you just have non-default your parameters while the reason for that is because now the order in which
you specify the arguments doesn't matter you can mix it up if you want to specify C first and then A
and B.
That's perfectly fine because Python will look at this and say OK you want to put 3 into C one into
a two into B and you end up with the same result.
So that's why we can use these keyword arguments even though we don't have default values.
It's very useful for mixing things up but that's of course a little cache to this.
Once you use a named argument all arguments thereafter must be named as well.
It's a little bit like to have the defaults right.
Once we had a default everything else after that had to be defaulted.
Same thing with named arguments.
So this has nothing to do with the definition of the function.
This is how we call the function using arguments.
If we stay out this way sequel's one comma to come free while Python looks at this and says OK I'm going
to put one into C and then what.
What is two and three is that a and b is that be an A.
Was that B and C because it's second and third position.
But I've already defined C Right so there's a lot of ambiguity there and therefore this doesn't work.
The syntax is not valid.
Same thing right.
If you do one comma because two commas three for the same reason you've got the keyword argument here.
You cannot specify a positional argument afterwards.
Yeah you and I can probably look at this and say OK I understand what you meant.
One was supposed to go to a two.
It goes into B and then 3.
Well that's the last parameter.
You know we don't have any other parameters that will go into C.
But what if you'd had a comma become a C and D right and then D had a default value for example and
you specified three while was 3 for C or 3 for d or.
You know again it's too ambiguous.
That won't work and in fact you'll get an exception as well if you try that.
The only thing that works is once you start using a keyword argument a named argument you must use keyword
arguments thereafter for everything.
Every other argument that comes so this is OK right.
We can start with a positional argument one so that will go to a and then we have these named arguments.
We have these keyword arguments because two Segal's 3.
That works.
And of course the order of the keyword arguments does not matter.
Which means that those works equally well and does exactly the same thing.
A will get one C will get 3 and B will get two and we end up with the same thing.
And so that's correct as well.
So as we just so all arguments after the first name for keyword argument must be named too.
It must be a keyword argument as well.
Of course default arguments may still be omitted Let's take a look at an example.
Suppose we define this function my funk with three parameters and B and C both have the full value.
Then we can call my func one.
Just using the normal positional arguments so one will get into a.
And then since we haven't specified B or C they will get their default values of 2 and 3 respectively.
Alternatively we can just use keyword arguments so Avril's one and Beagle's five.
Which means that a will get the value of 1.
B will get the value of 5 and then C wasn't specified so it will just take on its default value of 3
and so we end up with equals one equals five equals three.
Now of course the order of keyword arguments doesn't matter.
So we can also do it this way.
We can call my form of sequel to zero and a call to one in which case the zero will go into C.
One will go into a.
And since we didn't specify B it will just take its default value of 2 and so this is what we end up
with.
All right so let's switch to some code and let's just see how all this works.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.